README.md, before:

# ProFTPD module mod_clamav

The mod_clamav module is designed to prevent the upload of viruses,
trojans, and many more questionable items from even being uploaded.

Additional information may be found at the following URL:

    http://www.thrallingpenguin.com/resources/mod_clamav.htm

## Author

Please contact Joseph Benden (joe at thrallingpenguin.com) with any
questions, concerns, or suggesstions regarding this module.

## Directives

* ClamAV
* ClamFailsafe
* ClamServer
* ClamPort
* ClamStream
* ClamMinSize
* ClamMaxSize
 
----

* ClamAV
 * syntax: ClamAV on
 * default: none
 * context: all
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 1.3.2

The ClamAV directive will configure if the Mod_Clamav's virus scanning
and virus removal features are active. If no ClamAV directive is
configured, then the module will do no virus scanning.

* ClamFailsafe
 * syntax: ClamFailsafe boolean
 * default: false
 * context: all
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 0.13rc2

The ClamFailsafe directive will configure if Mod_Clamav's inability to
scan a file, for any reason, will cause the failure of the file to
upload. If no ClamFailsafe directive is configured, then the module
will accept files that may not have been completely scanned by Clamd.

* ClamServer
 * syntax: ClamServer hostname/ip
 * default: none
 * context: server config,virtualhost,global,directory
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 0.6 of mod_clamav

The ClamServer directive will configure the hostname/IP address used
to connect to the Clamd daemon process. If no ClamServer directive is
configured, then the module will do no TCP Clamd scanning.

Please see the ClamStream directive if using a different host for
Clamd than the ProFTPd server.

* ClamPort
 * syntax: ClamPort integer
 * default: 3310
 * context: server config,virtualhost,global,directory
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 0.6 of mod_clamav

The ClamPort directive will configure the TCP port used to connect to
the Clamd daemon process. If no ClamPort directive is configured,
then the module will use the Clamd default TCP port of 3310.

* ClamStream
 * syntax: ClamStream boolean
 * default: off
 * context: server config,virtualhost,global,directory
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 0.13rc3

The ClamStream directive will enable the streaming of the uploaded
file contents to the Clamd server using the INSTREAM protocol. This
directive should be used when the Clamd server is on a different
host than the ProFTPd server. If no ClamStream directive is
configured, then the module will use the SCAN Clamd protocol.
 
* ClamMinSize
 * syntax: ClamMinSize integer [units]
 * default: 0
 * context: server config,virtualhost,global,directory
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 0.10 of mod_clamav

The ClamMinSize directive will configure the minimum file size for
scanning. If the file size is smaller than this value, then the module
will do no scanning.

The given integer (may be an unsigned long) is the number of bytes for
the directive, and is followed by a units specifier of
(case-insensitive) "Gb" (Gigabytes), "Mb" (Megabytes), "Kb"
(Kilobytes), or "B" (Bytes). The given integer of bytes is multiplied
by the appropriate factor. A value of zero (0) disables this
directive.
 
* ClamMaxSize
 * syntax: ClamMaxSize integer [units]
 * default: 0
 * context: server config,virtualhost,global,directory
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 0.10 of mod_clamav

The ClamMaxSize directive will configure the maximum file size for
scanning. If the file size is larger than this value, then the module
will do no scanning.

The given integer (may be an unsigned long) is the number of bytes for
the directive, and is followed by a units specifier of
(case-insensitive) "Gb" (Gigabytes), "Mb" (Megabytes), "Kb"
(Kilobytes), or "B" (Bytes). The given integer of bytes is multiplied
by the appropriate factor. A value of zero (0) disables this
directive.
 
## Installation

To install mod_clamav, copy the mod_clamav.[ch] files into:

    proftpd-dir/contrib/

after unpacking the proftpd source code. For including mod_clamav as
a statically linked module:

    ./configure --with-modules=mod_clamav

To build mod_clamav as a DSO module

    ./configure --enable-dso --with-shared=mod_clamav

Then follow the usual steps:

    make
    make install

For those with an existing ProFTPD installation, you can use the prxs
tool to add mod_clamav, as a DSO module, to your existing serverL

    prxs -c -i -d mod_clamav.c

## Example Configuration

Tip: Enable HiddenStore for virus scanning to take place in the background.

    <IfModule mod_clamav.c>
       ClamAV on
       ClamServer localhost
       ClamPort 3310
    </IfModule>

## Running the unit-tests

It is important to run the unit-tests when contributing enhancements
or bug fixes to `mod_clamav`. In this section, we will cover all
important dependencies to run the basic unit-tests of both the
`mod_clamav` module and general ProFTPD specific tests.

Please be certain to include one or more working unit-tests with
your patch or merge request, for `mod_clamav`. Doing so will
dramatically improve the time-to-accept your patch or merge
request.

### Prerequisites

#### Dependencies

* Perl (a complete working Perl environment), with the following
  modules installed and working:
 * Getopt::Long
 * Test::Unit
 * Test::Harness
* ProFTPD source tree.
 * `mod_clamav` module must be present in source tree.
 * Ensure source tree compiles completely before attempting to run
   unit-tests.
* ClamAV scanner daemon (called: Clamd)
 * Must NOT be running whilst unit-testing
 * Local system TCP ports for both ClamAV scanner and ProFTPD must
   successfully allocate and not be firewalled. If you run in to
   connection error issues whilst testing, this may be the cause
   for the unit-tests to fail.

#### Patching the **ProFTPD** unit-test framework

    $ cd /path/to/proftpd/source
    $ patch -p0 < /path/to/mod_clamav/source/001-add-mod_clamav-to-tests.patch

### Running ProFTPD Unit-Tests

#### `mod_clamav` specific unit-tests

    $ cd /path/to/proftpd/source
    $ cd tests

Then run one of the following commands. The first one will output
simple information to quickly determine if any of the tests fail;
where as the second one outputs verbose debugging information.

    $ sudo perl t/modules/mod_clamav.t

**OR**

    $ sudo env TEST_VERBOSE=1 perl t/modules/mod_clamav.t

#### ProFTPD module specific unit-tests

    $ cd /path/to/proftpd/source
    $ cd tests
    $ sudo perl tests.pl --file-pattern '^t\/modules\/'

#### All ProFTPD unit-tests

    $ cd /path/to/proftpd/source
    $ make check

Commit message:

Updated docs for unit test changes.

README.md, after:

# ProFTPD module mod_clamav

The mod_clamav module is designed to prevent the upload of viruses,
trojans, and many more questionable items from even being uploaded.

Additional information may be found at the following URL:

    http://www.thrallingpenguin.com/resources/mod_clamav.htm

## Author

Please contact Joseph Benden (joe at thrallingpenguin.com) with any
questions, concerns, or suggesstions regarding this module.

## Directives

* ClamAV
* ClamFailsafe
* ClamServer
* ClamPort
* ClamStream
* ClamMinSize
* ClamMaxSize
 
----

* ClamAV
 * syntax: ClamAV on
 * default: none
 * context: all
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 1.3.2

The ClamAV directive will configure if the Mod_Clamav's virus scanning
and virus removal features are active. If no ClamAV directive is
configured, then the module will do no virus scanning.

* ClamFailsafe
 * syntax: ClamFailsafe boolean
 * default: false
 * context: all
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 0.13rc2

The ClamFailsafe directive will configure if Mod_Clamav's inability to
scan a file, for any reason, will cause the failure of the file to
upload. If no ClamFailsafe directive is configured, then the module
will accept files that may not have been completely scanned by Clamd.

* ClamServer
 * syntax: ClamServer hostname/ip
 * default: none
 * context: server config,virtualhost,global,directory
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 0.6 of mod_clamav

The ClamServer directive will configure the hostname/IP address used
to connect to the Clamd daemon process. If no ClamServer directive is
configured, then the module will do no TCP Clamd scanning.

Please see the ClamStream directive if using a different host for
Clamd than the ProFTPd server.

* ClamPort
 * syntax: ClamPort integer
 * default: 3310
 * context: server config,virtualhost,global,directory
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 0.6 of mod_clamav

The ClamPort directive will configure the TCP port used to connect to
the Clamd daemon process. If no ClamPort directive is configured,
then the module will use the Clamd default TCP port of 3310.

* ClamStream
 * syntax: ClamStream boolean
 * default: off
 * context: server config,virtualhost,global,directory
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 0.13rc3

The ClamStream directive will enable the streaming of the uploaded
file contents to the Clamd server using the INSTREAM protocol. This
directive should be used when the Clamd server is on a different
host than the ProFTPd server. If no ClamStream directive is
configured, then the module will use the SCAN Clamd protocol.
 
* ClamMinSize
 * syntax: ClamMinSize integer [units]
 * default: 0
 * context: server config,virtualhost,global,directory
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 0.10 of mod_clamav

The ClamMinSize directive will configure the minimum file size for
scanning. If the file size is smaller than this value, then the module
will do no scanning.

The given integer (may be an unsigned long) is the number of bytes for
the directive, and is followed by a units specifier of
(case-insensitive) "Gb" (Gigabytes), "Mb" (Megabytes), "Kb"
(Kilobytes), or "B" (Bytes). The given integer of bytes is multiplied
by the appropriate factor. A value of zero (0) disables this
directive.
 
* ClamMaxSize
 * syntax: ClamMaxSize integer [units]
 * default: 0
 * context: server config,virtualhost,global,directory
 * module: mod_clamav
 * compatibility: 0.10 of mod_clamav

The ClamMaxSize directive will configure the maximum file size for
scanning. If the file size is larger than this value, then the module
will do no scanning.

The given integer (may be an unsigned long) is the number of bytes for
the directive, and is followed by a units specifier of
(case-insensitive) "Gb" (Gigabytes), "Mb" (Megabytes), "Kb"
(Kilobytes), or "B" (Bytes). The given integer of bytes is multiplied
by the appropriate factor. A value of zero (0) disables this
directive.
 
## Installation

To install mod_clamav, copy the mod_clamav.[ch] files into:

    proftpd-dir/contrib/

after unpacking the proftpd source code. For including mod_clamav as
a statically linked module:

    ./configure --with-modules=mod_clamav

To build mod_clamav as a DSO module

    ./configure --enable-dso --with-shared=mod_clamav

Then follow the usual steps:

    make
    make install

For those with an existing ProFTPD installation, you can use the prxs
tool to add mod_clamav, as a DSO module, to your existing serverL

    prxs -c -i -d mod_clamav.c

## Example Configuration

Tip: Enable HiddenStore for virus scanning to take place in the background.

    <IfModule mod_clamav.c>
       ClamAV on
       ClamServer localhost
       ClamPort 3310
    </IfModule>

## Running the unit-tests

It is important to run the unit-tests when contributing enhancements
or bug fixes to `mod_clamav`. In this section, we will cover all
important dependencies to run the basic unit-tests of both the
`mod_clamav` module and general ProFTPD specific tests.

Please be certain to include one or more working unit-tests with
your patch or merge request, for `mod_clamav`. Doing so will
dramatically improve the time-to-accept your patch or merge
request.

### Prerequisites

#### Dependencies

* Perl (a complete working Perl environment), with the following
  modules installed and working:
 * Getopt::Long
 * Test::Unit
 * Test::Harness
* ProFTPD source tree.
 * `mod_clamav` module must be present in source tree.
 * Ensure source tree compiles completely before attempting to run
   unit-tests.
* ClamAV scanner daemon (called: Clamd)
 * Must NOT be running whilst unit-testing
 * Local system TCP ports for both ClamAV scanner and ProFTPD must
   successfully allocate and not be firewalled. If you run in to
   connection error issues whilst testing, this may be the cause
   for the unit-tests to fail.

#### Running `mod_clamav` Unit-Tests

To run the unit tests, execute the following command within
`mod_clamav`'s source folder:

    $ make tests

To display verbose debugging information with the unit tests,
execute the following command instead:

    $ env TEST_VERBOSE=1 make tests

**NOTE**: The unit tests include some which depend on root. If you
are interested in these specific unit tests, then execute the
above commands using sudo or su.
